- [Instructor] As I stated earlier, Quarkus ships
with a powerful tool to make web service calls
from within your application
to restful web services.
The rest client.
Let's take a look at how to use it.
So once again, back in our ID,
I'm going to create once again another new module.
Use whatever method you're comfortable with.
This one, I'm going to call room batch.
Now there's a couple elements that we need.
We need rest client.
And we'll use Jackson this time.
Okay, So from our room service,
we're going to copy a couple of values here.
We're going to bring over the room,
and put it same level.
We're going to get rid of the example resource.
All right, so now in our root package here,
we going to create a new interface.
And we're going to call it room service rest.
And again, it's an interface.
Now we annotate this, just like we would
if this was an actual web service.
So at path, and it's going to be slash rooms
but now we need to annotate it as application scoped.
And we're going to register,
a rest client.
Now I'm going to do a config key look up here,
just to make this a little bit easier to type later on.
We're just going to call this rooms API.
Now this is an interface,
but we will still annotate it with at get.
And we're going to do a list of room
because we we're going to call it getAllRooms call,
and we will call it the same thing.
All right, and before we actually wire
this is going to our application properties.
There's a couple values we need to push here.
So rooms api/mp-rest/url.
So rooms API is that key that I put in,
MP rest, my profile rest URL.
So what is the URL?
We're running this locally.
So it's just going to be http://localhost8080
And it's just the context route
of where the service is running.
So I already have my service running
and I can tell that in my IDE,
I encourage you right now to go ahead
and get your room service up and running
'cause you're going to need it here in a moment.
There's one more thing that we need to do
and that is we need to create a new Java class.
And we will call this one runner.
And we are going to do QuarkusMain.
And then we'll implement a QuarkusApplication.
Don't need that annotation.
All right, this is where
it's going to get a little bit different.
So we're still going to inject
but we also need to tell that it's a rest client
that we're injecting.
Room service rest.
And now we will implement our method.
And we will simply do a list of our room object.
Calling getAllRooms.
And then we will do a for each on that.
And do our system out::println.
So pretty simple.
But the idea here is that we haven't written much code
to actually make our web service request.
There is one more thing that I'm going to have to do.
You may not have to do this depending
on how you build the application.
But by default the plugin
that I get turns us into a rest service.
So I need to go get rid of the rest easy implementation.
And the rest assured implementation.
And in doing that, I've got go delete a couple of tests.
And if you haven't looked yet
it's a default test, you get, you really should.
So now that we've got all of that done.
Let us run our room batch.
Now, made no database connections.
We have no way of getting the data
other than making the rest call.
So you'll see how easy
it was to set up a rest implementation,
as well as a rest client
to call that from another service,
which is what we do a lot of
with microservices architectures.